<h1 style="margin-bottom: 0px;">BooLEVARD: Boolean Logical Evaluation of Activation and Repression in Directed pathways</h1>
<h2 style="margin-bottom: 2px; margin-top: 0px;">Figure legends and Supporting Information</sup></h2>
<p>
<b>Figure 1.</b> Overview of the BooLEVARD workflow. BooLEVARD processes Boolean models in .bnet format by converting them into BooLEV objects, integrating the Export, CountPaths, Drivers, and Pert methods. The Export method allows users to save BooLEV objects back as .bnet files, ensuring compatibility with other tools. The CountPaths method performs BooLEVARD’s core function – counting the number of activatory and inhibitory paths of a specific node within the stable states of the model. Stable-state-specific drivers (conjunctive blocks within a Boolean equation in cDNF) of each node are calculated using their cDNFs (for active nodes) or cNDNFs (for inactive nodes). Drivers can also be computed by calling the Drivers method. The drivers dictionary is simplified by applying iterative transitive reductions, and paths are recursively reversed-constructed and stored in a counter, being this the output of the CountPaths method. The Pert method enables users to introduce perturbations into BooLEV objects by modifying the Boolean equations of target nodes. Perturbations can be either additive, where the perturbation is incorporated into the existing logical rule, or non-additive, where the original equation is completely substituted to exclusively reflect the perturbation’s effect. The updated BooLEV can be exported back to .bnet format.

<b>Figure 2. A.</b> Example of a straightforward linear path. <b>B.</b> Representation of a positive feedback loop. <b>C.</b> Illustration of a complex signaling pathway. <b>D.</b> Schematic of a non-additive activation. <b>E.</b> Schematic of an additive activation. <b>F.</b> Schematic of a non-additive inhibition. <b>G.</b> Schematic of an additive inhibition. 

<b>Figure 3.</b> Heatmap showing the Boolean states (left) and the corresponding path counts (right), calculated using BooLEVARD, leading these states for the phenotype nodes in the stable states reached by the metastatic model. The Boolean states of the DNAdamage and ECMicroenv input nodes driving each stable state are also displayed. Path counts are presented in logarithmic scale. Active and inactive nodes are presented in black and white, respectively. Active paths triggering node activation and inactivation are presented in red in blue, respectively.

<b>Figure 4. A-D.</b> Path count range leading to the Boolean states of the Invasion and Apoptosis phenotype nodes across the stable states reached under the different perturbations. Path counts are shown as min-max scaled values across all stable states. <b>E-P.</b> Barplots of path counts triggering the activation and inactivation of Invasion and Apoptosis phenotype nodes across the stable states reached upon perturbation. Each bar shows the min-maxed scaled (with reference at zero) path counts in a given stable state. Activatory (red) and inhibitory (blue) paths are displayed for each target node (Invasion and Apoptosis) in different perturbations. 

<b>Figure 5. A.</b> A scatter plot depicting the impact of additive perturbations on the Boolean states of the Invasion (X-axis) and Apoptosis (Y-axis) phenotype nodes. <b>B.</b> A scatter plot depicting the impact of additive perturbations on the path counts triggering the activation or inhibition of the Invasion (X-axis) and Apoptosis (Y-axis) phenotype nodes. The points represent Invasion and Apoptosis scores for each perturbation (n = 48) and the unperturbed setup, which  are calculated as the average of Invasion and 1-Apoptosis local states (A) and path counts (B), min-max scaled (with reference at the unperturbed set up). Pearson correlation coefficient (r) and associated p-values are annotated in the upper-left corner of each plot. The regression line of best fit and estimate of 95% confidence interval are displayed in blue. 


<b>Supplementary File  1.</b>  Jupyter notebook containing the code implemented in the analysis presented in the use case.

<b>Supplementary Figure S1.</b> Density plot illustrating the distribution of BooLEVARD’s simulation times for each processed stable state. 

<b>Supplementary Figure S2.</b> Heatmap showing the stable states reached by the model upon perturbations discussed in Figure 4E-P. The local states of the input nodes driving each stable state are displayed in dark gray (ON) or light gray (OFF). ECMicroenv input node was set to 1 as a constraint in every perturbation. 

<b>Supplementary Figure S3.</b> Heatmap showing the stable states reached by the model upon every performed perturbation. The local states of the input nodes driving each stable state are displayed in dark gray (ON) or light gray (OFF). ECMicroenv input node was set to 1 as a constraint in every perturbation. 

<b>Supplementary Figure S4.</b> Barplots illustrating the min-max scaled path counts for the Invasion and Apoptosis across each stable state reached upon the perturbations performed . From top to bottom: path counts leading to the inactivation of Invasion, path counts leading to the activation of Invasion, path counts leading to the inactivation of Apoptosis, path counts leading to the activation of Apoptosis. Red and blue bars represent stable states reached upon the perturbations resulting in an active or inactive Boolean state of the phenotype node. Gray bars represent path counts of stable states reached upon the unperturbed set up. Non-scaled path counts (·103) triggering activation (positive) or inactivation (negative) are annotated on top of the bar of each perturbation. 

<b>Supplementary Figure S5.</b> Single-perturbation-induced invasiveness fate transitions represented by the scaled path counts upon every perturbation performed. Each plot corresponds to a specific perturbation. The x-axis represents stable-state-wise min-max scaled path counts for the Invasion node, and the y-axis shows apoptosis resistance as 1 - the stable-state-wise min-max scaled path counts for the Apoptosis node. Blue and brown triangles indicate the stable states of the unperturbed and perturbed models, respectively.  Since the model has one input node allowed to vary between 1 or 0, and two stable states in either condition, there are four blue triangles (two superimposed and not visible in the figure). Blue and brown crosses represent the averaged stable states path counts for the unperturbed and perturbed models, respectively. Black arrows illustrate the transitions in invasive fate from the unperturbed to the perturbed setups. Dashed horizontal and vertical lines separate sectors with negative and positive path counts (i.e. inactive and active states) for the Invasion and Apoptosis nodes, respectively. Red and blue areas display pro-invasive (i.e. Invasion = 1, Apoptosis = 0) and pro-apoptotic (i.e. Invasion = 0, Apoptosis = 1). 

<b>Supplementary Figure S6. A.</b> A scatter plot depicting the impact of additive perturbations on the Boolean states of the Invasion (X-axis) and Apoptosis (Y-axis) phenotype nodes. <b>B.</b> A scatter plot depicting the impact of additive perturbations on the path counts triggering the activation or inhibition of the Invasion (X-axis) and Apoptosis (Y-axis) phenotype nodes. The points represent Invasion and Apoptosis scores for each perturbation (n = 48) and the unperturbed setup, which  are calculated as the average of Invasion and 1-Apoptosis local states (A) and path counts (B), min-max scaled (with reference at the unperturbed set up). Pearson correlation coefficient (r) and associated p-values are annotated in the upper-left corner of each plot. The regression line of best fit and estimate of 95% confidence interval are displayed in blue. 

</p>
