<h1 style="margin-bottom: 50px;">BooLEVARD Tutorials</h1>
In this section, you will find practical Jupyter notebooks designed to guide you through using BooLEVARD. These tutorials provide steb-by step instructions and examples to help you explore Boolevard's functionalities and apply them to diverse contexts.

* **[Cybersecurity Vulnerabilities](https://github.com/farinasm/boolevard/blob/main/tutorials/Quick_Start.ipynb):** In this tutorial, we will explore a small Boolean model designed to simulate different cybersecurity scenarios. The model consists of nodes represening key components of a cybersecurity system, and the goal of this tutorial is to evaluate how different conditions and guidelines affect the overall security state of the system.
* **[Plant Guard Cell Abscisic Acid Signaling](https://github.com/farinasm/boolevard/blob/main/tutorials/Guard_Cell_Abscisic_Acid.ipynb):** This tutorial uses a Boolean model that represents how the phytohormone abscisic acid (ABA) regulates stomatal opening in guard cells. It highlights how counting pathways with BooLEVARD can reveal important insights into the system, illustrated through differences in the intensity of stomatal closure inhibition.
* **[Tumor Cell Invasion Inhibition](https://github.com/farinasm/boolevard/blob/main/tutorials/Cancer_Metastasis.ipynb):** In this tutorial, we will use a Boolean model representing key molecular cascades in cancer metastasis. The tutorial showcases how activatory perturbations of two tumor suppressor (p53 and p63) and micro RNA 34 successfully dampen invasiveness and increases apoptotic cell-fate decisions.
* **[Processing Boolean Models from Cell Collective](https://github.com/farinasm/boolevard/blob/main/tutorials/Processing_Boolean_Models_from_Cell_Collective.ipynb):** In this tutorial, we present a workflow for processing Boolean models available in Cell Collective using BooLEVARD.

Each tutorial notebook includes explanations and example code to facilitate hands-on learning and easy adaptation to your own models.
